Add Guest Optimization Guide to docs (#1080)
risc0/risc0: website/docs/zkvm/developer-guide/optimization.md

# Guest Optimization Guide

RISC Zero’s zkVM is designed and built to act like a physical CPU.
We did this so you could use general purpose languages (e.g. Rust) and general purpose tools (e.g. Cargo, LLVM). **Generally, you can apply general purpose optimization techniques too!**

In this guide, we’ll cover optimization of [zkVM guest programs].
We’ll discuss when you can apply common techniques from other contexts, and when you need a new approach.

[zkVM guest programs]: ./guest-code-101

## Background

### What is the zkVM, really?

**The zkVM is essentially a CPU.**

In particular, it is an implementation of the [RISC-V architecture] (specifically riscv32im), similar to how your laptop’s CPU may be an implementation of an [x86] or [ARM] architecture.
This biggest difference is that the zkVM is implemented with [arithmetic circuits], in software, instead of circuitry made from silicon and copper.

[RISC-V architecture]: /reference-docs/about-risc-v
[x86]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86
[ARM]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_architecture_family

> [arithmetic circuits]: https://dev.risczero.com/proof-system/stark-by-hand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[arithmetic circuits]: /reference-docs/about-arithmetic-circuits
```

### What is a “cycle”?

Both in the zkVM and on physical CPUs, the cost of an operation is measured in “clock cycles”.

Intuitively, a "clock cycle" is the smallest unit of time in a CPU's operation, representing one tick of the CPU's internal clock and the time it takes to execute a basic CPU operation (e.g. adding two integers).

> We’ll refer to this as a “cycle”. [^1]

Reviewer: hmm... this footnote doesn't seem to be working in the preview

Author: Oops, I forgot to add a `:` after the footnote target. Fixed in b030c12f8c4fd7c7d6984adb533f1a5c7500842f

> **Proving times for the zkVM are directly related to the number of cycles in an execution.**

Reviewer: Seems like a nice spot to include a link to our datasheet for more information

Author: My current understanding is we do not have a version of that sheet that we want to share widely right now. If we do, I definitely want to link to it.

## General techniques and advice

**Start by applying general techniques and best practices for optimizing your code.**

[The Rust Performance Book] is great resource.
It’s not very long, it covers a range of topics important to performance, and gives applicable advice for optimization.
If you are new to optimization, or new to Rust, we recommend you read this guide.

[The Rust Performance Book]: https://nnethercote.github.io/perf-book/

### Don’t assume, measure.

Performance is complex, in the zkVM as on a physical CPU.
Don’t assume you know what the bottlenecks are. Measure and experiment.

> If you make a function 100x faster (or ∞x faster) but it only takes 1% of your execution time, you’ll see a &lt;1% improvement in performance.

Reviewer: The `<` felt confusing to me on first read. 
```suggestion
If you make a function 100x faster (or ∞x faster) but it only takes 1% of your execution time, you’ll see less than 1% improvement in performance.
```

This is generally referred to as [Amdahl’s Law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amdahl%27s_law), and practically it means you shouldn't waste your time optimizing something that's not the taking a significant portion of execution time.

### Measuring by printing to console

Starting simple, measure by adding an `eprintln!` line to your guest code to measure how long an operation takes, and how many times it is called.

Using [`env::get_cycle_count()`] will tell you the current number of execution cycles that have occurred in your program.

As an example:

> ```rust title="methods/guest/src/main.rs"

Reviewer: In the past we were including comments with versioning tags like `v0.19` to make it easier to handle version maintenance via `ctrl-f`. @flaub may have other thoughts on how to handle tagging code to help manage maintenance
